{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2511
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue-Bold;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue-BoldItalic;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red220\green161\blue13;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c89412\c68627\c3922;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww25280\viewh17720\viewkind0
\deftab560
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Life takes many forms. But what separates us from other beings is our ability to rationalize it.\
The moments when we sit by ourselves and contemplate on the unknown are powerful and can lead to some great realizations that can change the course of our life.\
\
\pard\pardeftab560\sa40\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs52 \cf0 20 Existential Questions and Their Answers
\fs28 \
\
1. What\'92s the meaning of life?\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 To make us learn and grow, show us good and bad, let us choose who to be and what to do each day while giving us many opportunities to change and be better.\
If we leave this life without having achieved anything, helped others, reached peace of mind, found light in the darkness and developed spiritually, then it would be meaningless.\
\pard\pardeftab560\sa40\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 \
2. How do we measure life?\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 It\'92s a series of present moments. Each is brief, but also wonderful and a blessing given to us. We can let it pass, or grab it, experience it and make the most of it.\
\pard\pardeftab560\sa40\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 \
3. How can we have healthy relationships?\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 By first fixing the one we have with ourselves, meaning we must first accept, forgive, appreciate, be honest with and love ourselves before we try to connect with others on a deeper level.\
\pard\pardeftab560\sa40\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 \
4. What\'92s our biggest mistake?\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 That we think we have time.\
\pard\pardeftab560\sa40\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 \
5. Will we be punished for our sins?\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 The only punishment is the guilt we live in. We create prisons in our heads where we relive our bad deeds over and over again and thus let them define us. But as creators, we can also break free from that.\
If we ask for forgiveness and start doing good and going beyond ourselves, we\'92ll find salvation.\
It won\'92t be given to us, we\'92ll find it ourselves in the joy and peace we\'92ll see in life as it is, without trying to change anything, hurt others, control or take anything.\
\pard\pardeftab560\sa40\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 \
6. How do we know if we\'92re doing the right thing?\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 There\'92s a certain moment at the end of each day when we\'92re on our own, without other people or anything to distract us, when nothing else needs to be done, and when random thoughts go away. Plenty of things can {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://b3466f591460afb498890ce897031d98dcca65cf-m.us-proxy.startpage.com/npd/ttfddvtidbfstufm/ST/mirxg1BULLuhQLuRl93YZGv7nw//////////causes-indecisiveness/?SURFLY_TAB_PREFIX=_surfly_tab0"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 cause indecisiveness}}.\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0
\cf0 If at that moment we feel good about ourselves and can go to sleep with a smile looking forward to the next day, then we\'92ve done our best and it was the right thing to do at this point in our lives. If not, then something must be changed.\
\pard\pardeftab560\sa40\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 \
7. Are we in control of our lives?\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 The only things we have control over are the present moment, our reaction to what life throws at us, and our habits.\
If we learn to be mindful and enjoy the present, think before we act and show understanding, and slowly change our behavior by building better habits, then we can have control over that part of our life. And it can make us happy and successful enough. As for the rest, we need to be strong enough to {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://b3466f591460afb498890ce897031d98dcca65cf-m.us-proxy.startpage.com/npd/ttfddvtidbfstufm/ST/mirxg1BULLuhQLuRl93YZGv7nw//////////2016/06/06/accepting-acceptance-quotes/?SURFLY_TAB_PREFIX=_surfly_tab0"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 accept it and let it be}}.\
\
\pard\pardeftab560\sa40\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 8. What\'92s the most important moment of our life?\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 Each and every one of it.\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0
\cf0 If we start looking at it this way, we\'92ll achieve greatness and find true contentment.\
\pard\pardeftab560\sa40\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 \
9. Is one life enough?\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 One of the deepest existential questions is \'91Is one life enough?\'92 The answer lies in the actions you take today and how you decide to spend your time.\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0
\cf0 It may be more than enough. But at the same time, 10 lives cannot be enough to reach a single goal or fix a tiny problem.\
Just like a productive person can get a lot done in a few hours and feel accomplished, while another can be stuck in an office trying to complete a short to-do list and feel exhausted from the beginning.\
Time is subjective. But apparently, it\'92s what we make of it.\
\pard\pardeftab560\sa40\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 \
10. Is there life after death?\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 The only thing that is sure about the future is that it\'92s uncertain.\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0
\cf0 The best you can do is live in a way so that your death will be a celebration of your life.\
\pard\pardeftab560\sa40\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 \
\
11. What\'92s the universal language?\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://357ba3555fd0de2784058add1f73ad094b2089cb-m.us-proxy.startpage.com/hsp/bjefqjljx/of/ST/mirxg1BULLuhQLuRl93YZGv7nw//////////wiki/Compassion?SURFLY_TAB_PREFIX=_surfly_tab0"}}{\fldrslt 
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf2 Compassion}}
\f0\b0\fs24 .\
\pard\pardeftab560\sa40\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 \
12. Are we all equal?\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 Yes. In our pains and reasons to smile.\
\pard\pardeftab560\sa40\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 \
13. Why do we take life for granted?\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 Because it\'92s given to us just like that. We indulge in bad behaviors, turn to easy solutions to problems, let distractions get in the way and forget what\'92s important.\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\qc\partightenfactor0

\f2\i\b \cf0 But, most of all, we forget that this life is a gift with an expiration date.\
\pard\pardeftab560\sa40\partightenfactor0

\f1\i0\fs28 \cf0 \
14. What do we need in this world?\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 Less than we think.\
\pard\pardeftab560\sa40\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 \
15. Can we have it all?\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 No. And we don\'92t need to.\
We have a wrong perception of what essential means. Life is about prioritizing, really. There\'92s just not enough time in a day and in a lifetime to achieve all goals, reach the top of all fields, be everywhere, become many things, etc.\
But it\'92s just enough to make something big out of it if we define what\'92s essential and dedicate enough time and energy to get it.\
Choose one thing and master it.\
\pard\pardeftab560\sa40\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 \
16. Is life unfair?\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 No. We just have a broken idea of fairness.\
\pard\pardeftab560\sa40\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 \uc0\u8232 17. Do people change?\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 Yes. All the time. And if you\'92re not aware of it, then it\'92s in a bad way.\
\pard\pardeftab560\sa40\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 \
18. Is there something more to life?\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 If you\'92re asking yourself that, then you need more meaning in your days.\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Go out there, try different stuff and see what you care about, what you\'92re passionate about and what excites you. Then combine these in a unique way and make something beautiful out of that.\
\pard\pardeftab560\sa40\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 \
19. Do we need to be saved?\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 There are two options. You can either ask yourself that and wait for a savior. Or you can make a plan, take action and create things that will make your life and the life of others better in some way.\
\pard\pardeftab560\sa40\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 \
20. Why are some people mean?\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 Because of their own insecurities and issues. They find {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://a306ea91b39bc792ee9aaf837d92d3eb40985c19-m.us-proxy.startpage.com/npd/zbepuzhpmpidztq/xxx/ST/mirxg1BULLuhQLuRl93YZGv7nw//////////blog/emotional-fitness/201103/why-do-we-hurt-each-other?SURFLY_TAB_PREFIX=_surfly_tab0"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 comfort in hurting others}}.\
But you should know it\'92s nothing personal. Keep in mind that life in their head isn\'92t easy either. So smile back to them and show compassion. Maybe that\'92s all they need.\
What are your answers to these existential questions? And what others do you ponder?}